I finally did it I finally filmed an
actual example video of me doing one of
these Toastmasters roles that for years
I've sat here and talked and explained
how to do the roll but it's hard if you
don't have the actual visual example so
I've gone out and filmed myself doing
the grammarian role and in this video
you're going to see the actual in-person
presentation at my Toastmasters Club
where I take on the grammarian role and
in between those video clips I'm going
to give a little bit of commentary of
what things I did well and perhaps what
things I could have done better hey
everyone my name is Wade Patterson I am
passionate so passionate about impactful
communication communication is such an
important part of our Lives therefore if
communication is something that you want
to improve upon which it should be
because it's such an important part of
life consider subscribing to my channel
I put out a ton of video content with
with the goal of making you not only a
better public speaker but a better
Communicator in general so as I
mentioned I finally did it I shot an
example video this one is of the
grammarian role it's in two different
parts so in our club the grammarian
comes in near the beginning of the
meeting to explain the role and
introduce a word of the day that club
members are encouraged to use throughout
the meeting the second part comes at the
end of the meeting in the evaluation
section where the grammarian talks about
how many people use the word of day and
points out some examples of great use of
language and opportunities where people
could have improved upon the language
that they used let's take a look at my
first video as the grammarian
thank you madam Toastmaster fellow
Toastmasters welcome guests and all of
those joining us on Zoom the role of the
grammarian has two parts part number one
is to choose a word of the day which you
will see around the room and the word I
have chosen today is bilious and my
favorite part about the word bilius is
the first definition which is
sickeningly unpleasant to look at how
does that tie into winter activities I
woke up in the morning looked out the
window at the bilious snow on my
driveway
I'll be keeping track of anyone who uses
this word and the frequency of how often
you use the word throughout the meeting
the second part of the grammarian is to
keep an ear out for great uses of
language and opportunities where better
more emphatic words could have been used
throughout the meeting I'll come back in
the second half to deliver my report
thank you
so there you go that is the first little
snippet of an example video for me doing
a Toastmasters role and overall I have
to say I was fairly happy with how that
went over there were two things that I
noticed could have been improved and by
the way give me your feedback I'd love
to you to let me know in the comments if
I could have improved upon more things
but the two things I think I really
could have improved upon there was an
opportunity to let humor sink in a
little bit more so sometimes after I
said something that got a bit of
laughter I rushed on to the next thing
and as a great public speaker when you
say something funny it's an important
skill to pause allow the laughter to
happen don't cut it off and then
continue afterward I could have improved
there the second area I think I could
have improved was saying thank you as a
handoff instead of thank you madam
Toastmaster which would have been a bit
more appropriate but overall you get a
sense of me doing the initial part of
the grammarian role I introduced a word
of the day I explained the role so I was
pretty happy with how I took on this
role so as I mentioned fast forward
toward the end of the meeting I have to
give my recap how did I do there let's
take a look
[Applause]
thank you madam Toastmaster fellow
Toastmasters welcome guests and everyone
on Zoom looking at the word of the day
usage list halfway through the meeting
it was bilious
Sue was the only person who had used the
word and she used the word before I even
came up
apparently Wendy used it allegedly I
didn't catch that one however the good
news is as the meeting went on it was
used more in fact Bonnie used it Dan
used it yes Wendy used it later on I did
have that one and Kenny used it as well
so pretty good all in all and there was
other great uses of language as well
Wendy started off the meeting early
talking about feeling the Magic in the
air with the snow she said hideous and
Bill use bilious which I thought was a
good additional word to add on there
Fahad had a great line never let the
flame of Hope go out in your life I
thought that was very powerful Margaret
and Kenny both use the word scoop up as
much snow as possible and I thought that
was effective rather than just say pick
up as much snow as possible Kenny I
didn't catch the full descriptive name
of your invented sport but I wish I had
because that was an incredible use of
language and and Sid perhaps wins the
award for most creative word of Shep
Miss which is incredible
the one piece of improvement advice was
for Dan early on who said the theme of
the evening it is 7 A.M in the morning
it is not evening great meeting yeah
yeah so there you have it there was the
second part of my grammarian role and I
want to address a couple things that
happened because I wasn't quite as happy
with how I delivered that section so I
want to point out a few areas that could
have improved but before I do that I
want to know one thing that did happen
during that grammarian report and that
was a distraction so at some point I had
mentioned that not many people at the
beginning of the meeting use the word of
the day which was bilious
however a distraction took place
somebody the crowd yelled that Wendy had
used the word
and there was a bit of confusion now
when this distraction happens you as the
speaker have two options of how to
address it option number one is to
ignore it so I could have just allowed
the comment to go and not addressed it
or the second option which is the one I
chose in this instance is to address it
head on which I did I made a comment or
a joke about how oh I didn't catch that
one from Wendy that was early in the
meeting but then as I went further
through I did mention that I did
eventually catch Wendy saying the word
of the day that's one note I want to
address because distractions can really
derail you as a new speaker because it
goes against what you've been planning
so remember you always have two options
when a distraction happens either
address it or ignore it completely there
were a couple ways I could have improved
this grammarian report in my opinion the
first was the pronunciation of bilious I
mispronounced it at some point with that
said I kept going I didn't let that get
me off track I mispronounced it I
corrected myself and I kept going the
second thing I could have done a little
bit better was not switching back and
forth from second to third person this
is something I struggle with so often in
evaluations and the right way to do it
is to address people in third person
only therefore I talk about Wendy doing
something well or I talk about Sue doing
something well and by using third person
all of us in the club benefit from that
information but when you switch to
second person which is the word you it's
almost like you're having a one-on-one
conversation with one individual the
downside of that is not everyone feels
like they're benefiting off of that
information because it seems like you're
just addressing one person no matter
whether you do your evaluation in third
person or second person which I really
think you should do it in third person
the key is to not bounce back and forth
between you and the person's name which
I did in this evaluation so slap on the
wrist I need to do better next time
another way I could have improved this
evaluation was again with the sign off I
said something awkward like great
meeting and walked off the stage that is
not the way you should wrap up a role
you should thank Madam Toastmaster or
whoever you're handing it off to and
perhaps come up with something a little
bit more creative to tie it together
that was not something I was very proud
of how that all came together you may be
wondering what feedback I got from the
general evaluator at the end of the
meeting overall she said I did a
fantastic job with the role however in
the first half of the grammarian report
or the grammarian role she said I could
have given more examples of how to use
the word of the day which is bilious
that was great feedback from our general
evaluator and I'll definitely try to do
that in my next time taking on the
grammarian role I really hope this live
example video of taking on the
grammarian role was helpful to you let
me know if it was beneficial I plan to
do a lot more videos of this style where
I'm actually going to take my camera
into my Toastmasters meeting and film
myself doing various roles and then I'll
provide the feedback in the commentary
in between those video clips talking
about what I did well and what I could
do better because that is the thing as a
public speaker you can always improve
your speech no matter how long you've
been doing this I've been a Toastmasters
member for seven years and I can improve
it every meeting that is the great thing
about the Toastmasters program thank you
so much for watching this video I hope
it was beneficial please leave me a
comment like the video subscribe turn on
notifications because I plan to provide
a lot more fantastic video content to
help make you a better Communicator
thank you so much for watching this
video if you were looking for a little
bit of coaching help with your next
speech I am providing one-on-one
evaluations my contact email is in the
video description reach out to me and
let's discuss what that could look like